README.md, before:

# Netbox Docker

Ansible role to configure [NetBox](https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox) as a docker-compose project.

This repository started as a fork of [wastrachan/ansible-role-netbox-docker](https://github.com/wastrachan/ansible-role-netbox-docker) but due to substantial changes and enhancements introduced over time, this fork has somewhat diverged from the upstream project. While we acknowledge the original work as our foundation, users should be aware that the functionality, structure, license and features of this fork may differ considerably from the original repository. We recommend reviewing the commit history and documentation within this fork to understand the current state and capabilities of this Ansible role.

## Compatibility

### Operating Systems

This role is compatible with the following linux distributions:
- Ubuntu
- Debian
- Red Hat Entreprise Linux (RHEL)
- Fedora

### Netbox

This role is compatible with the following versions of Netbox-Docker and should follow the same compatibility matrix as the upstream project for the most part:
- [3.0.1](https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox-docker/releases/tag/3.0.1) (NetBox v4.1.x and above. See [NetBox Releases](https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox/releases))

## Installation

### Ansible Galaxy

Install this role with Ansible Galaxy:

`ansible-galaxy install git+https://github.com/jsenecal/ansible-role-netbox-docker.git`

### Local Installation

If you'd like to include this role directly in a playbook, set your [`roles_path`](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/reference_appendices/galaxy.html#roles-path) to `./roles` via environment variable or `ansible.cfg`.

Then, add this role to your playbook's `requirements.yml`:

```
- src: https://github.com/jsenecal/ansible-role-netbox-docker
  version: master
  name: netbox-docker
```

And finally, install the role with Ansible Galaxy:

`ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml`

## Requirements

`docker` and `docker-compose` must be available and installed on the target system.

## Role Variables

Configuration and installation options are made available as variables. Some of these (`secret_key` and `passwords`) _should_ be overridden before use!

| Option                            | Default                   | Description                                         |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `netbox_base_path`                 | `/opt/netbox`             | Root path for netbox's docker-compose file and data store |
| `netbox_port`                     | `8080`                    | Host port to expose netbox on. If blank, netbox's port is not exposed |
| `netbox_netbox_image`             | `docker.io/netboxcommunity/netbox:v4.1-3.0.1` | Netbox docker image tag         |
| `netbox_valkey_image`             | `docker.io/valkey/valkey:8.0-alpine`          | Valkey docker image tag         |
| `netbox_postgres_image`           | `docker.io/postgres:16-alpine`                | Postgres docker image tag       |
| `netbox_caddy_image`              | `docker.io/caddy:2-alpine`                    | Caddy docker image tag          |
| `netbox_admin_api_token`          | -                         | API token for the default admin user, created on first run |
| `netbox_admin_email`              | `admin@example.com`       | Email of the default admin user, created on first run |
| `netbox_admin_password`           | `admin`                   | Password for the default admin user, created on first run |
| `netbox_admin_username`           | `admin`                   | Username of the default admin user, created on first run |
| `netbox_allowed_hosts`            | `*`                       | If set, connections will be restricted to this list host names (also used in caddy) |
| `netbox_cors_origin_allow_all`    | `true`                    | If set to true, all CORS origins will be allowed    |
| `netbox_cors_origin_whitelist`    | `http://localhost`        | Whitelist of acceptable CORS origin headers         |
| `netbox_default_page_size`        | `250`                     | Default number of objects for paginated views       |
| `netbox_email_certfile`           | -                         | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_from`               | `netbox@bar.com`          | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_keyfile`            | -                         | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_password`           | -                         | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_port`               | `25`                      | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_server`             | `localhost`               | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_timeout`            | `5`                       | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_use_ssl`            | `false`                   | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_use_tls`            | `false`                   | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_username`           | `netbox`                  | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_enforce_global_unique`    | `false`                   | Enforcement of unique IP space can be toggled on a per-VRF basis. To enforce unique IP space within the global table, set this to true |
| `netbox_graphql_enabled`          | `true`                    | Enable GraphQL API                                  |
| `netbox_housekeeping_interval`    | `86400`                   | Interval to run housekeeping worker                 |
| `netbox_container_labels`         | `[]`                      | Optional extra container labels to apply to the netbox container. See [Traefiknginx-proxy Support](#traefiknginx-proxy-support) |
| `netbox_container_env`            | `[]`                      | Optional extra container environment variables to apply to the netbox container. See [Traefik/nginx-proxy Support](#traefiknginx-proxy-support) |
| `netbox_login_required`           | `false`                   | Whether or not a user must be authenticated to view DCIM details in Netbox |
| `netbox_max_page_size`            | `1000`                    | Maximum number of objects for paginated API requests |
| `netbox_metrics_enabled`          | `false`                   | Expose Prometheus monitoring metrics at the HTTP endpoint '/metrics' |
| `netbox_pg_db`                    | `netbox`                  | Postgres database name                              |
| `netbox_pg_host`                  | `postgres`                | Postgres database host. This should not be changed if using the default docker-compose setup. |
| `netbox_pg_password`              | `RANDOM_SEED`             | Postgres password                                   |
| `netbox_pg_user`                  | `netbox`                  | Postgres user                                       |
| `netbox_additional_network_names` | -                         | Extra external networks to attach to the netbox container. See [Traefik/nginx-proxy Support](#traefiknginx-proxy-support) |
| `netbox_valkey_cache_host`        | `valkey-cache`            | Valkey cache instance host. This should not be changed if using the default docker-compose setup. |
| `netbox_valkey_cache_insecure_skip_tls_verify` | `false`      | If true, certificates for valkey cache are not checked |
| `netbox_valkey_cache_password`    | `RANDOM_SEED`             | Valkey cache instance password                      |
| `netbox_valkey_cache_ssl`         | `false`                   | If true, communication with valkey is secured with SSL |
| `netbox_valkey_host`              | `valkey`                  | Valkey instance host. This should not be changed if using the default docker-compose setup. |
| `netbox_valkey_insecure_skip_tls_verify` | `false`            | If true, certificates for valkey are not checked    |
| `netbox_valkey_password`          | `RANDOM_SEED`             | Valkey instance password                            |
| `netbox_secret_key`               | `RANDOM_SEED`             | [Netbox secret key](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/settings/#std:setting-SECRET_KEY). Should be at least 50 characters long |
| `netbox_skip_startup_scripts`     | `false`                   | If true, do not run startup scripts on container start |
| `netbox_skip_superuser`           | `false`                   | If true, do not create superuser on container start |
| `netbox_webhooks_enabled`         | `true`                    | If true, enable netbox webhooks functionality       |
| `netbox_use_caddy`                | `false`                   | If set, Caddy will be used to serve Netbox over TLS |
| `netbox_caddy_letsencrypt_email`  | -                         | Email address to use for letsencrypt automatic certificate generation |
| `netbox_caddy_http_port`          | `80`                      | Caddy HTTP port                                     |
| `netbox_caddy_https_port`         | `443`                     | Caddy HTTPS port                                    |
| `netbox_ssl_cert_bundle`          | -                         | Caddy certificate bundle                            |
| `netbox_ssl_cert_key`             | -                         | Caddy certificate key                               |
| `netbox_extra_config`             | -                         | If provided, this yaml will be rendered in [`config/extra.py`](https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox-docker/blob/release/configuration/extra.py) |
| `netbox_extra_services`           | -                         | Additional services to include in the docker-compose file |
| `netbox_extra_volumes`            | -                         | Additional volumes to include in the docker-compose file |

Some additional variables are available for advanced configuration. Please refer to the [defaults/main.yml](defaults/main.yml) file for a complete list.

## Example Playbook

Including an example of how to use your role (for instance, with variables passed in as parameters) is always nice for users too:

```yaml
    - hosts: servers
      roles:
        - netbox-docker
```

## TLS for localhost
Developing locally and testing TLS (i.e. https) features often poses a challenge. This guide is intended for people developing with, on or for NetBox or NetBox Docker on their computer. It allows to access NetBox Docker through TLS on https://localhost:443, https://127.0.0.1:443 and https://[::1]:443. It is based on the setup recommended by the [Netbox-Docker wiki on TLS](https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox-docker/wiki/TLS#tls-for-localhost).
First install `mkcert` on your computer. It creates and installs a local CA-Certificate, which will be used by mkcert to create and sign other certificates. This way, your certificates are trusted on your own computer and you don't get a TLS warning in your tools (browsers, cURL, and so forth).

Begin by creating the certificates for localhost and it's IPv4 and IPv6 addresses using the following commands.

```shell
mkcert -install
mkcert localhost 127.0.0.1 ::1
```
This should have created a file called `localhost+2.pem` and another file called `localhost+2-key.pem`. Use these two certificates with a slight modification of the setup proposed above:

```yaml
    - hosts: localhost
      vars:
        netbox_port: null
        netbox_use_caddy: true
        netbox_ssl_cert_bundle: path_to/localhost+2.pem
        netbox_ssl_cert_key: path_to/localhost+2-key.pem
      roles:
        - netbox-docker
```

## Traefik/nginx-proxy Support

This playbook can be used with [traefik](https://hub.docker.com/_/traefik) or jwilder's [nginx-proxy](https://hub.docker.com/r/jwilder/nginx-proxy) by adding labels with `netbox_container_labels`, or environment variables with `netbox_container_env`, respectively. Additionally, `netbox_additional_network_names` will attach the netbox service to additional networks, as traefik/nginx-proxy usually reside in a network other than that created by docker-compose projects. While not a complete guide to these services, your configuration may look like the below:

#### traefik

```yaml
netbox_port: null
netbox_additional_network_names: 
  - traefik
netbox_container_labels:
  traefik.enable: "true"
  traefik.http.services.netbox.loadbalancer.server.port: "8080"
  traefik.http.routers.netbox.rule: "Host(`netbox.domain.com`)"
```

#### nginx-proxy

```yaml
netbox_port: null
netbox_additional_network_names: 
  - nginx
netbox_container_env:
  VIRTUAL_HOST: netbox.domain.com
  VIRTUAL_PORT: "8080"
```

## License

This project itself is licensed under the terms of the [MIT License](LICENSE.txt).

Commit message:

Support for plugins and refactor

README.md, after:

# Netbox Docker

Ansible role to configure [NetBox](https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox) as a docker-compose project.

This repository started as a fork of [wastrachan/ansible-role-netbox-docker](https://github.com/wastrachan/ansible-role-netbox-docker) but due to substantial changes and enhancements introduced over time, this fork has somewhat diverged from the upstream project. While we acknowledge the original work as our foundation, users should be aware that the functionality, structure, license and features of this fork may differ considerably from the original repository. We recommend reviewing the commit history and documentation within this fork to understand the current state and capabilities of this Ansible role.

## Compatibility

### Operating Systems

This role is compatible with the following linux distributions:
- Ubuntu
- Debian
- Red Hat Entreprise Linux (RHEL)
- Fedora

### Netbox

This role is compatible with the following versions of Netbox-Docker and should follow the same compatibility matrix as the upstream project for the most part:
- [3.0.1](https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox-docker/releases/tag/3.0.1) (NetBox v4.1.x and above. See [NetBox Releases](https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox/releases))

## Installation

### Ansible Galaxy

Install this role with Ansible Galaxy:

`ansible-galaxy install git+https://github.com/jsenecal/ansible-role-netbox-docker.git`

### Local Installation

If you'd like to include this role directly in a playbook, set your [`roles_path`](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/reference_appendices/galaxy.html#roles-path) to `./roles` via environment variable or `ansible.cfg`.

Then, add this role to your playbook's `requirements.yml`:

```
- src: https://github.com/jsenecal/ansible-role-netbox-docker
  version: master
  name: netbox-docker
```

And finally, install the role with Ansible Galaxy:

`ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml`

## Requirements

`docker` and `docker-compose` must be available and installed on the target system.

## Role Variables

Configuration and installation options are made available as variables. Some of these (`secret_key` and `passwords`) _should_ be overridden before use!

| Option                            | Default                   | Description                                         |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `netbox_base_path`                 | `/opt/netbox`             | Root path for netbox's docker-compose file and data store |
| `netbox_port`                     | `8080`                    | Host port to expose netbox on. If blank, netbox's port is not exposed |
| `netbox_netbox_image`             | `docker.io/netboxcommunity/netbox:v4.1-3.0.1` | Netbox docker image tag         |
| `netbox_valkey_image`             | `docker.io/valkey/valkey:8.0-alpine`          | Valkey docker image tag         |
| `netbox_postgres_image`           | `docker.io/postgres:16-alpine`                | Postgres docker image tag       |
| `netbox_caddy_image`              | `docker.io/caddy:2-alpine`                    | Caddy docker image tag          |
| `netbox_admin_api_token`          | -                         | API token for the default admin user, created on first run |
| `netbox_admin_email`              | `admin@example.com`       | Email of the default admin user, created on first run |
| `netbox_admin_password`           | `admin`                   | Password for the default admin user, created on first run |
| `netbox_admin_username`           | `admin`                   | Username of the default admin user, created on first run |
| `netbox_allowed_hosts`            | `*`                       | If set, connections will be restricted to this list host names (also used in caddy) |
| `netbox_cors_origin_allow_all`    | `true`                    | If set to true, all CORS origins will be allowed    |
| `netbox_cors_origin_whitelist`    | `http://localhost`        | Whitelist of acceptable CORS origin headers         |
| `netbox_default_page_size`        | `250`                     | Default number of objects for paginated views       |
| `netbox_email_certfile`           | -                         | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_from`               | `netbox@bar.com`          | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_keyfile`            | -                         | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_password`           | -                         | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_port`               | `25`                      | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_server`             | `localhost`               | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_timeout`            | `5`                       | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_use_ssl`            | `false`                   | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_use_tls`            | `false`                   | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_email_username`           | `netbox`                  | [Email server settings documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-EMAIL_HOST) |
| `netbox_enforce_global_unique`    | `false`                   | Enforcement of unique IP space can be toggled on a per-VRF basis. To enforce unique IP space within the global table, set this to true |
| `netbox_graphql_enabled`          | `true`                    | Enable GraphQL API                                  |
| `netbox_housekeeping_interval`    | `86400`                   | Interval to run housekeeping worker                 |
| `netbox_container_labels`         | `[]`                      | Optional extra container labels to apply to the netbox container. See [Traefiknginx-proxy Support](#traefiknginx-proxy-support) |
| `netbox_container_env`            | `[]`                      | Optional extra container environment variables to apply to the netbox container. See [Traefik/nginx-proxy Support](#traefiknginx-proxy-support) |
| `netbox_login_required`           | `false`                   | Whether or not a user must be authenticated to view DCIM details in Netbox |
| `netbox_max_page_size`            | `1000`                    | Maximum number of objects for paginated API requests |
| `netbox_metrics_enabled`          | `false`                   | Expose Prometheus monitoring metrics at the HTTP endpoint '/metrics' |
| `netbox_pg_db`                    | `netbox`                  | Postgres database name                              |
| `netbox_pg_host`                  | `postgres`                | Postgres database host. This should not be changed if using the default docker-compose setup. |
| `netbox_pg_password`              | `RANDOM_SEED`             | Postgres password                                   |
| `netbox_pg_user`                  | `netbox`                  | Postgres user                                       |
| `netbox_additional_network_names` | -                         | Extra external networks to attach to the netbox container. See [Traefik/nginx-proxy Support](#traefiknginx-proxy-support) |
| `netbox_valkey_cache_host`        | `valkey-cache`            | Valkey cache instance host. This should not be changed if using the default docker-compose setup. |
| `netbox_valkey_cache_insecure_skip_tls_verify` | `false`      | If true, certificates for valkey cache are not checked |
| `netbox_valkey_cache_password`    | `RANDOM_SEED`             | Valkey cache instance password                      |
| `netbox_valkey_cache_ssl`         | `false`                   | If true, communication with valkey is secured with SSL |
| `netbox_valkey_host`              | `valkey`                  | Valkey instance host. This should not be changed if using the default docker-compose setup. |
| `netbox_valkey_insecure_skip_tls_verify` | `false`            | If true, certificates for valkey are not checked    |
| `netbox_valkey_password`          | `RANDOM_SEED`             | Valkey instance password                            |
| `netbox_secret_key`               | `RANDOM_SEED`             | [Netbox secret key](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/settings/#std:setting-SECRET_KEY). Should be at least 50 characters long |
| `netbox_skip_startup_scripts`     | `false`                   | If true, do not run startup scripts on container start |
| `netbox_skip_superuser`           | `false`                   | If true, do not create superuser on container start |
| `netbox_webhooks_enabled`         | `true`                    | If true, enable netbox webhooks functionality       |
| `netbox_use_caddy`                | `false`                   | If set, Caddy will be used to serve Netbox over TLS |
| `netbox_caddy_letsencrypt_email`  | -                         | Email address to use for letsencrypt automatic certificate generation |
| `netbox_caddy_http_port`          | `80`                      | Caddy HTTP port                                     |
| `netbox_caddy_https_port`         | `443`                     | Caddy HTTPS port                                    |
| `netbox_ssl_cert_bundle`          | -                         | Caddy certificate bundle                            |
| `netbox_ssl_cert_key`             | -                         | Caddy certificate key                               |
| `netbox_extra_config`             | -                         | If provided, this string will be rendered __as is__ in [`config/extra.py`](https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox-docker/blob/release/configuration/extra.py) |
| `netbox_extra_services`           | -                         | Additional services to include in the docker-compose file |
| `netbox_extra_volumes`            | -                         | Additional volumes for the nebox container to include in the docker-compose file |

Some additional variables are available for advanced configuration. Please refer to the [defaults/main.yml](defaults/main.yml) file for a complete list.

### Plugins
Some variables are available to configure plugins. These are not enabled by default. To enable a plugin, set the `netbox_plugins` variable to a list of plugins to install. Each plugin should be a dictionary with the following keys:
- `name`: The name of the plugin to install, as it appears on PyPi, or the name of the directory in the case of a plugin installed from source
- `src`: The source of the plugin. This can be a URL to a git repository or a local path. If not provided, the plugin will be installed from PyPi
- `version`: When a `src` is defined, this defines a valid reference within the plugin's git repository to install or package version. If not provided, `HEAD` of the default repository branch will be installed or the latest pypi package version if `src` isnt defined.

For example, to install the [netbox-acls](https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox-acls) plugin from source, you would add the following to your playbook:

```yaml
netbox_plugins:
  - name: netbox-acls
    src: https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox-acls.git
    version: 1.6.1
```

#### Plugin Configuration

`netbox_plugins_config` is a dictionary of plugin configurations. Each key should be the name of a plugin, and the value should be a dictionary of configuration options for that plugin. Please refer to the plugin's documentation for available configuration options.

## Example Playbook

Including an example of how to use your role (for instance, with variables passed in as parameters) is always nice for users too:

```yaml
    - hosts: servers
      roles:
        - netbox-docker
```

## TLS for localhost
Developing locally and testing TLS (i.e. https) features often poses a challenge. This guide is intended for people developing with, on or for NetBox or NetBox Docker on their computer. It allows to access NetBox Docker through TLS on https://localhost:443, https://127.0.0.1:443 and https://[::1]:443. It is based on the setup recommended by the [Netbox-Docker wiki on TLS](https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox-docker/wiki/TLS#tls-for-localhost).
First install `mkcert` on your computer. It creates and installs a local CA-Certificate, which will be used by mkcert to create and sign other certificates. This way, your certificates are trusted on your own computer and you don't get a TLS warning in your tools (browsers, cURL, and so forth).

Begin by creating the certificates for localhost and it's IPv4 and IPv6 addresses using the following commands.

```shell
mkcert -install
mkcert localhost 127.0.0.1 ::1
```
This should have created a file called `localhost+2.pem` and another file called `localhost+2-key.pem`. Use these two certificates with a slight modification of the setup proposed above:

```yaml
    - hosts: localhost
      vars:
        netbox_port: null
        netbox_use_caddy: true
        netbox_ssl_cert_bundle: path_to/localhost+2.pem
        netbox_ssl_cert_key: path_to/localhost+2-key.pem
      roles:
        - netbox-docker
```

## Traefik/nginx-proxy Support

This playbook can be used with [traefik](https://hub.docker.com/_/traefik) or jwilder's [nginx-proxy](https://hub.docker.com/r/jwilder/nginx-proxy) by adding labels with `netbox_container_labels`, or environment variables with `netbox_container_env`, respectively. Additionally, `netbox_additional_network_names` will attach the netbox service to additional networks, as traefik/nginx-proxy usually reside in a network other than that created by docker-compose projects. While not a complete guide to these services, your configuration may look like the below:

#### traefik

```yaml
netbox_port: null
netbox_additional_network_names: 
  - traefik
netbox_container_labels:
  traefik.enable: "true"
  traefik.http.services.netbox.loadbalancer.server.port: "8080"
  traefik.http.routers.netbox.rule: "Host(`netbox.domain.com`)"
```

#### nginx-proxy

```yaml
netbox_port: null
netbox_additional_network_names: 
  - nginx
netbox_container_env:
  VIRTUAL_HOST: netbox.domain.com
  VIRTUAL_PORT: "8080"
```

## License

This project itself is licensed under the terms of the [MIT License](LICENSE.txt).
